---
title: Governance Model
menu: Governance Model
weight: 7
---

Governance Model
================

Community Lead Governance
-------------------------

Ultimately the governance model should allow the engagement of all
stakeholders, in all stakeholder roles, such that they are peers in the
decision making for EOSC. For this, EOSC can borrow from Community
Governance in the public sector as typically used for local government
or social community initiatives. In this context, Community governance
refers to the processes for making all the decisions and plans that
affect life in the community, whether made by public or private
organisations or by citizens. To be effective, it considers three core
community skills of *engaging citizens*, *measuring results*, and
*getting things done* in order to help people and organisations make
decisions about what actions to take in a community and to measure their
impact and effectiveness.[^1] The interaction between these “skills” is
shown in Figure 11.

<img src="GovernanceModel/media/image1.png" style="width:5.52852in;height:2.26667in" />

Figure 11 - Effective Community Governance[^2]

These map very closely to the layers defined in the EOSC Declaration, of
Institutional, Executive, and Advisory). In this model, the Advisory
Layer from the declaration would involve the *engaging citizens* skills
to determine the scientific and technical needs of the users. The term
“Advisory” is meant, in this context, to concern engaging with all
stakeholders. It is important that stakeholders are, and feel that they
are, peers in the decision-making process. They should perform a role
that is both advisory *and steering* - it should provide strong guidance
and direction (not just advisory) to the Strategic and Executive layers.

The declaration’s Institutional layer would define the strategic
objectives and measure the impact and effectiveness of EOSC against
these objectives and so would principally map to the *Measuring Results*
skill.

Finally, the Executive\\Operational layer would map to the *Getting
Things Done* skill by ensuring that the EOSC delivers to meet the needs
of the stakeholders through the strategic objectives set by the
Institutional layer. These layers are illustrated in Figure 12.

<img src="GovernanceModel/media/image2.png" alt="EOSC Governance Layers" style="width:5.33333in;height:2.17708in" />

Figure 12 - EOSC Governance Layers

The intersections of these skills and layers are important in delivering
an effective governance structure for EOSC. The **Stakeholder** layer
determines within its communities’ best practice, standards, rules of
participation, in effect addressing the recommendations of “*Guidance
only where guidance is due”* and “*Define Rules of Participation for
service provision in the EOSC”* from the HLEG group report, as well as
the scientific and technical requirements of the EOSC. This forms a
discussion and interaction with the **Strategic** layer, articulates the
strategic objectives for the EOSC, and the metrics to measure how well
the EOSC delivers against these objectives. This leads to an interaction
between the **Strategic** and **Executive** layers to determine how the
EOSC is provisioned and commissioned to meet these objectives. Finally,
there is be a feedback loop between the **Stakeholder** and
**Executive** on how well the EOSC is meeting the communities’ needs,
standards and practices, and a report back from the **Executive** to the
**Strategic** layer on how effective the EOSC is meeting the strategy,
and how effective the strategic goals are at capturing the real needs of
the communities. This is outlined in Figure 13.

<img src="GovernanceModel/media/image3.png" alt="EOSC Community Governance Model" style="width:3.75in;height:3.69028in" />

Figure 13 - Community Governance Model for EOSC

Decision Flow
-------------

The overall decision flow between these layers is outlined in Figure 14
(the structures within the layers is elaborated on in the next section
on Governance Structure).

<img src="GovernanceModel/media/image4.png" style="width:5.94792in;height:4.00072in" />

Figure 14 - Governance Decision Flow

The **Stakeholder** layer would allow the stakeholders to determine the
requirements, policies and Rules of Participation, and make proposals on
how these could be met to the **Strategic** Layer. The **Strategic**
layer would review, agree and prioritise these proposals and
requirements to form the strategic vision and objectives of the EOSC.

The **Executive** layer would be responsible for ensuring that the EOSC
meets this vision and these objectives by: commissioning Core resource
as required; commissioning new Supported resources as required; ensuring
that Supported resources are properly compensated; and ensuring that the
resources within EOSC are both compliant and meet the strategic
objectives.

The **Stakeholder** layer would also communicate to the **Executive** at
how well the EOSC is meeting their requirements at an operational level,
and the **Executive** would report this against the strategic objective
to the Strategic layer.

For example, a scientific discipline (or disciplines) within the
**Stakeholder** layer might define data interoperability and re-use
principles for data within their domains. The **Strategic** layer would
translate this into strategic objectives and requirements for resource
within EOSC which handle such data. The **Executive** would have
responsibility for ensuring such resources existed within EOSC, and
would receive input from the **Stakeholder** layer on how well these
resources are in enabling data interoperability and re-use.
Alternatively, communities within the **Stakeholder** layer might
identify key areas where training and support are required, the
**Strategic** layer would again translate these to objectives, the
**Executive** would ensure that there were resources within EOSC to meet
these training and support requirements, and the **Stakeholder** would
report how effective they are.

[^1]: http://www.rtmteam.net/page.php?pageID=25&section=overview\_of\_ecg

[^2]: http://www.rtmteam.net/page.php?pageID=25&section=overview\_of\_ecg


