---
title: Strategic Requirements
menu: Strategic Requirements
weight: 4
---

Strategic Requirements 
=======================

European Cloud Initiative Communication
---------------------------------------

On the 19^th^ April 2016, the European Commission published a
communication on the “European Cloud Initiative - Building a competitive
data and knowledge economy in Europe”[^1]. This document outlined the
vision of the European Open Science Cloud as:

“The European Open Science Cloud aims to give Europe a global lead in
scientific data infrastructures, to ensure that European scientists reap
the full benefits of data-driven science. Practically, it will offer 1.7
million European researchers and 70 million professionals in science and
technology a virtual environment with free at the point of use, open and
seamless services for storage, management, analysis and re-use of
research data, across borders and scientific disciplines. Its
development will be driven by the scientific community, who are the most
advanced users and the largest producers of science in the world. The
European Open Science Cloud will be also open for education and training
purposes in higher education and, over time, to government and business
users as the technologies developed will be promoted for wider
application. “

The Communication gives the following requirement for the EOSC
Governance structure:

“Create **a fit-for-purpose pan-European governance structure** to
federate scientific data infrastructures and overcome fragmentation**.**
The institutional set-up will oversee long-term funding, sustainability,
data preservation and stewardship. It will build on existing structures
to involve scientific users, research funders and implementers”.

First HLEG Report
-----------------

The second key policy document for the European Open Science Cloud is
the first High Level Expert Group report published on the 11^th^ October
2016[^2]. This makes various recommendations on policy, governance, and
implementation to take immediate action on the EOSC in close concert
with Member States, building on existing capacity and expertise. Its
recommendations on governance are as follows:

1.  **Aim at the lightest possible, internationally effective
    governance**.

    Given the urgency and the number and variety of stakeholders and
    participants required to realise the EOSC, a tightly governed, new
    infrastructure built 'somewhere' is not the right model for the EOSC
    to be a success. Instead a more inclusive, flexible, transparent and
    less centralised approach is required, one that also enables
    effective global collaboration. The Commission needs to establish a
    lightweight, sustainable and collaborative governance model for the
    EOSC for all players to contribute.

2.  **Guidance only where guidance is due**.

    While we advocate lightweight governance, we need a degree of
    regulation. For instance, the harmonisation of the current
    'standards jungle' needs to be actively coordinated. With no
    regulation, some major players, public and private, may claim an
    unjust and counterproductive share in the EOSC. The EOSC will have a
    myriad of small and very large players, as is the case in the
    current internet, but it should be perceived by regulators and
    stockholders alike as a “commons” where citizens, researchers and
    innovators need to use each other's data and tools in a trusted
    affordable and sustainable environment. Europe should take a lead in
    this due guidance element of the Internet of FAIR Data and Services.

3.  **Define Rules of Participation**[^3] **for service provision in the
    EOSC.**

    To support wide participation, innovation and sustainability the
    EOSC needs to be open to all players, public and private, European
    and non-European and the development of the desired expert
    infrastructure will be guided and governed by a minimal set of
    rigorously applied and enforced protocols and developed by parties
    that endorse so called Rules of Participation (RoP) that specify the
    conditions under which stakeholders participate. These RoP can be
    used to brand providers in the EOSC as trustworthy and compliant
    with the RoP, comparable to Conformant Cloud Providers in the USA.
    It should be clear that non-EOSC approved players are free to
    explore any role in the Open Science ecosystem they wish, even if
    they do not adhere to the RoP. They will just not be able to brand
    their services as EOSC approved/certified.

4.  **Federate the gems (and amplify good practice).**

    Based on the consensus that most foundational building blocks of the
    Internet of FAIR data and Services are operational somewhere, but
    that they operate in silos per domain, geographical region and
    funding scheme, we recommend that early and strong action is taken
    to federate these gems. Optimal engagement is required of the
    e-infrastructure communities, the ESFRI communities and other
    disciplinary groups and institutes. Several of these cross-ESFRI
    building blocks begin to operate in individual Member States.
    Simultaneously, the wealth of small and large industrial players in
    Europe should be engaged. All partners and stakeholders that adhere
    to standards and sign off on the Rules of Participation (RoP) should
    be eligible.

Open Science Policy Platform
----------------------------

In May 2017, the Open Science Policy Platform[^4] adopted a “Report on
the governance and financial schemes for the European Open Science
Cloud” from its working group on the EOSC[^5]. This report was submitted
to the EU Competitiveness Council. It recommends that:

1.  The EOSC should rely on a multi-level and multi-stakeholder
    governance that ensures a representation for the main stakeholder
    categories and disciplines, integrating both the national and
    European levels of authority.

2.  Facilitate access to the EOSC across borders and disciplines by
    carefully analysing all aspects of interoperability (technical,
    semantic, organisational, legal and policy) and translate them into
    a common model and rules of participation.

3.  European countries and EC should ensure long-term funding of the
    services that are needed to enable the integration of and access to
    the resources that can be federated in the EOSC.

4.  Different and innovative funding schemes should be investigated to
    support users to consume services from EOSC-certified providers that
    are approved based on a commonly-agreed European certification
    scheme.

5.  Kick-off the EOSC ecosystem with enough coordinated financial
    support from a sufficiently large set of European countries and the
    EC.

6.  Raise awareness and communicate benefits of the EOSC among decision
    makers, research and education bodies, private sector, industrial
    and citizen organisations; share best practices and use-cases to
    highlight the potential and results of the EOSC.

7.  Develop Open Science and data skills among all the key stakeholder
    categories.

8.  Ensure to align and develop ethical rules in data management,
    storage and analytics that are recognized by all stakeholders in the
    EOSC.

EOSC Declaration
----------------

The EOSC Declaration, published by the EC on 24/10/17 is an outcome of
the EOSC Summit of 12th June 2017 that was attended by eighty key
stakeholders. The EOSC Declaration sets out key principles on Data
Culture and FAIR Data; Research Data Architectures and Services; and
Governance and Funding[^6]. The key principles for governance are:

1.  **Governance model** - A long-term, sustainable research
    infrastructure in Europe requires a strong and flexible governance
    model based on trust and increasing mutuality. As
    interdisciplinarity is one of the main objectives of the EOSC, the
    governance model should be based on representability,
    proportionality, accountability, inclusiveness and transparency.

2.  **Governance framework** - The EOSC governance framework will be
    co-designed, stakeholder driven and composed of three main
    layers: 1) institutional, including EU Member States and European
    Commission 2) operational, including a governance board and relevant
    working committees (e.g. thematic and functional) and 3) advisory,
    including a stakeholder forum.

3.  **Governance board** - A governance board will coordinate the
    efforts of stakeholders endorsing the EOSC Declaration, with the
    broad mandate to reach practical agreements for the implementation
    of an EOSC Roadmap by 2020. The board will have an advisory role and
    an implementing role of the decisions by Member States and European
    Commission concerning the programming, financing and towards the
    setting up of a long-term governance and business model for the
    EOSC. It will make best use of the outcomes of past and current
    projects (e.g. EOSCpilot, eInfraCentral and EOSC-hub) and
    independent expert advice and studies.

4.  **Coordination structure** - A coordination structure, funded by
    Horizon 2020, will help the governance board to manage the
    implementation, according to agreed rules and methods of stakeholder
    participation. The structure and its participating entities should
    be accountable for the responsibilities assumed, based on an
    objective assessment of their level of readiness in delivering the
    EOSC main functionalities.

5.  **Global aspects** - The EOSC will be European and open to the
    world, reaching out over time to relevant global research partners.
    It will increase the global value of open research data and support
    stakeholder engagement, including researchers and citizens. It will
    gradually widen the initiative to federated network of
    infrastructures and nodes from global research partners. The EOSC
    Stakeholder Forum will have an important role in this sense.

EC Staff Working Document
-------------------------

The European Commission’s staff working document **"Implementation
Roadmap for the European Open Science Cloud"**[^7] outlines an interim
governance structure for the initial implementation phase of the EOSC
(see Figure 4). It is envisaged that this can transition to the
framework described in this document. This transition is covered later
in the document.

<img src="StrategicRequirements/media/image1.png" alt="SWD Governance" style="width:4.85833in;height:3.48637in" />

Figure 4 - Staff Working Document - Governance Structure

Second HLEG Report
------------------

The report of the Second High Level Expert Group on the Open Science
Cloud (Prompting an EOSC in Practice)[^8] concluded that the provision
of resources to support the EOSC will take place in a very heterogeneous
landscape of e-infrastructures and service providers, with dispersed
users at best aggregated around disciplinary poles and national
infrastructures. Addressing this challenge requires the definition of a
smallest common denominator, i.e. the Minimum Viable Ecosystem of the
EOSC.

<img src="StrategicRequirements/media/image2.png" style="width:5.44167in;height:2.43884in" />

Figure 5 - 2nd HLEG Report - Governance Overview

As part of that Minimum Viable Ecosystem, the report supported a
Governance structure for the initial implementation of the EOSC
(illustrated in Figure 5) very much along the lines advocated in the EC
Staff Working Document.

[^1]: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/communication-european-cloud-initiative-building-competitive-data-and-knowledge-economy-europe

[^2]: https://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/realising\_the\_european\_open\_science\_cloud\_2016.pdf

[^3]: This concept has been called “Rules of Engagement” and “Principles
    of Engagement” in previous EOSC communications and reports. The
    current accepted term is “Rules of Participation” and this is the
    term used within this document. References to earlier documents have
    been updated to use this term for consistency.

[^4]: https://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/index.cfm?pg=open-science-policy-platform

[^5]: https://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/ospp\_euro\_open\_science\_cloud\_report-.pdf

[^6]: <https://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/eosc_declaration.pdf>

[^7]: [http://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/swd\_2018\_83\_f1\_staff\_workin...](http://ec.europa.eu/research/openscience/pdf/swd_2018_83_f1_staff_working_paper_en.pdf)

[^8]: https://publications.europa.eu/en/web/eu-law-and-publications/publication-detail/-/publication/5253a1af-ee10-11e8-b690-01aa75ed71a1


